The main analysis tool for brain data in the lab is SPM. This is a pre-installed Matlab package on CABI cluster computers. We use custom-made SPM-based scripts to analyze the data including pre-processing, first level, and second level analysis. For ROI analysis, Marsbar (http://marsbar.sourceforge.net) is the most commonly used package for lab scripts.

Our brain data analysis is not limited to the simple univariate analysis. We use other approaches such as multi-voxel pattern analysis. For this reason we use The Decoding Toolbox (TDT) (https://sites.google.com/site/tdtdecodingtoolbox). This toolbox, which is compatible with SPM and AFNI, is a commonly used toolbox for multivariate analysis of brain data in the field of neuroscience. While TDT is a powerful and popular package for multivariate analysis, the type of the analysis which could be done with it is somehow limited. Growth of machine learning algorithms enables scientists from all of the fields including neuroscience to bring a new perspective to their data analysis. Nilearn (https://nilearn.github.io) is a python package for statistical learning on neuroimaging data. The tutorial, code manual, and the flexibility they provide, makes Nilearn a great tool for multivariate statistics with applications such as predictive modeling, classification, decoding, or connectivity analysis. 

Another powerful tool to analyze neuroimaging data is the Functional Connectivity Toolbox (CONN) (https://web.conn-toolbox.org/home). CONN is a SPM-based software for analyzing functional connectivity MRI (fcMRI) consisting of resting state data (rsfMRI) and task related designs. This toolbox is able to perform end-to-end analysis of fMRI including preprocessing, univariate analysis, multivariate analysis, multiple connectivity analyses and measures, group and population level inferences by implementing, etc.
